-The Special Counsel
in the Russia investigation
revealed that President Trump's
ex-National Security Adviser
has been cooperating
with multiple investigations
after lying to the FBI.
For more on this,
it's time for "A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]
It has now been two years
since the Trump administration
first faced questions
about his ties to Russians
and the firing of
National Security Adviser
Michael Flynn.
And it's worth remembering
just how many times
they've changed their story
since then.
All the way back
in January 2017, for example,
when the Flynn allegations
first emerged,
Vice President-elect
Mike Pence insisted
that the campaign
had no contacts with Russians
of any kind, period.
-Was there any contact
in any way
between Trump or his associates
and the Kremlin
or cutouts they had?
-I -- I joined this campaign
in the summer,
and I can tell you that all the
contact by the Trump campaign
and associates
was with the American people.
-Did any adviser or anybody
in the Trump campaign
have any contact
with the Russians
who were trying
to meddle in the election?
-Oh, of course not.
And I think --
I think to suggest that
is to give credence
to some of --
of these bizarre rumors
that have
swirled around the candidacy.
-"Bizarre rumors
around the candidacy"?
Bizarre rumors
were the candidacy.
[ Laughter ]
Trump campaigned for President
like a high school sophomore
gossiping at his locker.
[ Laughter ]
"Did hear Barack
was born in Kenya?
And Ted Cruz's dad killed JFK.
Pass it on.
[ Laughter ]
And you know, he doesn't
get as much credit for it,
but Mike Pence
is just as slippery of a liar
as anyone else
in this administration.
The only difference
is that when he lies,
he crinkles his brow
and he uses a solemn tone.
And when Trump lies,
he sweats like a fugitive
who's being chased
by a pack of police dogs.
[ Laughter and applause ]
Just look.
Just look at the differences
in how they lie.
Both of these statements
were equally untrue,
and they were both made around
the same time in early 2017.
-I joined this campaign
in the summer,
and I can tell you
that all the contact
by the Trump campaign
and associates
was with the American people.
-Well,
I had nothing to do with it.
I have nothing
to do with Russia.
I told you,
I have no deals there.
-It's like when
the cops separate two suspects
in a bank heist,
and one of them says,
"I'd like to speak
to my lawyer,"
and the other guy's
in the next room, screaming,
"It was all Mike's idea!"
[ Laughter ]
Also, why does Trump
always hold his hands out
like this when he lies?
It's like he's already
practicing to get handcuffed.
[ Laughter ]
Or to hold up a name slate
for his mug shot.
Seriously,
whenever he does that --
whenever he does that,
I have the strong urge
to throw him a basketball.
"Think fast!"
[ Laughter ]
So, that was
what they said at first,
that there were no contacts
with any Russians of any kind,
period.
Then we found out
that Flynn had secretly spoken
with the Russian ambassador
about lifting sanctions
on Russia
and that he lied about it
to the FBI.
A few weeks later,
Trump fired him
while also insisting that Flynn
hadn't done anything wrong.
-Mike Flynn is a fine person.
And I asked for his resignation.
He respectfully gave it.
He didn't have to do that,
because what he did
wasn't wrong.
When I looked
at the information, I said,
"I don't think
he did anything wrong.
If anything,
he did something right."
I was not happy with the way
that information was given.
You know,
he was just doing his job.
-Then why did you fire him?
[ Laughter ]
"Mike, you come in
on time every day,
you make lots of money
for the company,
the guys at corporate love you.
Clean out your desk, bud."
[ Laughter ]
And if you closed your eyes
and just listened to him,
you'd think Trump was arguing
with his identical twin.
"He resigned!
But he didn't have to.
He did something wrong.
If anything,
he did something right!"
[ Laughter ]
"I can't be mad at you,
identical twin."
[ Laughter ]
Then, of course, it came out
that almost
everyone around Trump
had secret contacts
with Russians.
Jared Kushner tried to set up
a secret back channel
with the Kremlin.
Jeff Sessions met
with the Russian ambassador.
Trump's Foreign Policy Adviser
met with Russians in Europe.
And Stephen Miller moonlights as
Vladimir Putin's shoulder raven.
[ Laughter ]
Then, after we found that the
President's son Don Jr.
met with Russians offering dirt
on Hillary Clinton
in the summer of 2016,
the story shifted again.
They stopped saying there was
no contact with Russia
and started insisting
there was no collusion
with Russia,
because anyone
would've taken the meeting,
and besides, nothing came of it.
-For me,
this was opposition research.
They had something -- you know,
maybe concrete evidence
to all the stories
I've been hearing about
that were probably
underreported for years,
not just during the campaign.
So I think
I wanted to hear it out.
But, really, it went nowhere.
-"This was a meeting to get
information on an opponent,
totally legal and done
all the time in politics,
and it went nowhere.
I did not know about it."
-"It was totally legal.
It went nowhere.
I didn't know
anything about it."
Trump's like a kid who didn't
study for a multiple-choice test
and fills in all the bubbles.
[ Laughter ]
As a general rule, if you have
three different alibis,
none of them are true.
If your boss asks you
to take a drug test,
and you say, "I've never
smoked marijuana in my life.
I didn't inhale.
Weed is legal now,"
get ready to pee in a cup.
In fact yesterday,
GOP Senator Chuck Grassley
was asked why
the President's tweets
get him in trouble so often,
and he offered a solution that I
don't really think would work.
-Hey, listen, the President
could solve all of his problems
if he'd just
show his wife the tweet
before he punches
the "send" button.
-Oh, come on.
You think he talks to his wife?
[ Laughter ]
She's the only person who,
if Trump said
there were no contacts,
I would believe it.
Also, when I look
at Chuck Grassley,
I don't exactly think
social-media strategist.
I'd think he was
one of those dudes
eating lunch on that steel beam.
[ Laughter ]
In fact, Grassley
has his own weird tweets
about the Russia investigation.
After the Don Jr.
meeting surfaced,
Grassley himself tweeted,
"Dems, don't go berserk
about Trump assoc talking
with a Russian lawyer
about Russia adoption policy.
I and a Dem Sen
did same advocacy
with Russian foreign min."
Jesus.
[ Laughter ]
Did you type that
during a fistfight
on top of a moving train?
You think Trump should
show his tweets to his wife?
You need to show yours
to a 1st grader.
[ Laughter ]
"Yeah, I'm not
a great speller, man,
but I think this is all wrong."
[ Laughter ]
So their story went from there
were no contacts with Russians
to there was
no collusion with Russians
to we tried to collude
but nothing came of it.
But then, as one Trump associate
after another was indicted
or pled guilty, the Trump team
changed their story again.
Trump's lawyer, Rudy Giuliani,
insisted that Trump himself
couldn't be guilty because he
didn't do the hacking himself.
-I don't even know if that's a
crime, colluding about Russians.
-Okay.
[ Chuckles ]
-You start analyzing the crime,
the hacking is the crime.
The hacking is the crime.
-That certainly
is the original problem, yes.
-Well, the president
didn't hack.
-Of course not.
That's the original problem.
-He didn't pay them
for hacking.
-Of course he didn't
pay for the hacking.
Trump doesn't pay for anything.
[ Laughter and applause ]
If Mueller doesn't take Trump
to federal Court,
Putin might have to take him
to the People's Court
just to get the money he's owed.
[ Laughter ]
And then Rudy
just straight up said
that collusion
is not against the law.
-I've been sitting here
looking in this federal code,
trying to find collusion
as a crime.
-It's not.
-Collusion is not a crime.
-I like the idea that Giuliani's
been looking in the federal code
trying to find
the word "collusion."
Just because that word
isn't in there,
doesn't mean it's not a crime.
It's like a public defender's
client who's accused of murder.
"Good news!
I looked in the federal code,
and the words "shoved off a
balcony" aren't in there.
So you're home free, baby!"
[ Laughter and applause ]
Trump, of course,
is also under investigation
for obstruction of justice
for asking
then-FBI Director James Comey
to shut down
his investigation of Flynn
and for signaling to witnesses,
like his ex-campaign chairman
Paul Manafort
that if they refused
to cooperate with Mueller,
he'll pardon them.
And so now Trump's defenders
on Fox News
are trying out a new argument.
If he obstructs justice
in public, it can't be a crime.
-Some critics of the President
said, "Well, this is obviously
him trying to obstruct justice,"
but if that's the case,
he's obstructing justice
in front of the world.
-Yeah.
-I mean, can you actually
obstruct justice if you're
not doing it in secret?
-Oh, it can still be a crime
if you do it in public.
For example, no one's ever been
arrested for private urination.
[ Laughter ]
Now, one of
the potential witnesses
who Trump has expressed
support for on Twitter
is his former adviser
Roger Stone,
who allegedly had
secret contacts with WikiLeaks,
along with an associate,
Jerome Corsi,
a longtime right-wing
conspiracy theorist.
And Stone responded by claiming
Muller had pressured Corsi
into making that confession.
-This is really simple.
It shows what happens when
you hotbox a 72-year-old man
for 40 hours, as
the Mueller interrogators did.
-Wait.
[ Laughter ]
They hotboxed him?
So they put him in a car
and made him smoke weed
until he confessed?
[ Laughter ]
"You know
what's a funny word to say?
Putin."
[ Laughter ]
"Putin."
In order to believe Trump
and everyone around him
are innocent,
you'd have to believe
that they've been lying
for two years,
because they did nothing wrong.
But the Cohen plea deal
and the Flynn memo
make clear
that Mueller knows they lied,
and he can prove they lied.
I don't know if Trump will ever
try to fire Muller, but if does,
even Trump will have to say...
-He was just doing his job.
-This has been
"A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]